# Process-Scheduling-Simulations
This project was sourced from a university project completed during my enrollment. The original repository has been kept private as per the university code of conduct, so this repository has all references to the university removed.

#### Testing Types

In order to properly test the efficiency of each algorithm, there were two common variables present in all of the algorithms that can contribute to inefficiency:

1. Amount of time executing

2. Number of times the dispatcher switches processes

3. Average Turnaround Time

4. Average Waiting Time

Below is a table of these values for each algorithm (any averages were calculated over the course of 10 full executions):

| Algorithm | Execution Time | # of Switches | Turnaround | Waiting Time |
| --------- | -------------- | ------------- | ---------- | ------------ |
| FCFS      | 4.723          | 5             | 16.4       | 9.4          |
| SPN       | 0.388          | 5             | 13.1       | 6.1          |
| RR        | 2.039          | 9             | 15.4       | 8.4          |
| PRR       | 3.436          | 10            | 17         | 10           |

#### Relative Performance

As seen in the table in the previous section, the average performance for SPN was overall the best for the provided inputs, with the following best performers, in order, being RR, FCFS and then PRR. More complicated/larger input sets may change the results drastically depending on the newly introduced variables.

It's important to remember that the raw numbers don't fully contribute to the overall performance of the algorithm. For example, whilst SPN may be more appealing due to its low execution and waiting time, it may also starve larger processes that may have a higher priority.

#### Unexpected Behaviour

Whilst the majority of the outputs matched the official expected outputs, a strange occurrence appeared in the Waiting Time section of the PP algorithm in the second datafile. The expected output was:

| Process | Time |
| ------- | ---- |
| p1      | 18   |
| p2      | 1    |
| p3      | 1    |
| p4      | 2    |
| p5      | 2    |

However, the output generated by my algorithm was

| Process | Time |
| ------- | ---- |
| p1      | 18   |
| p2      | 1    |
| p3      | 1    |
| p4      | 1    |
| p5      | 1    |

This strange behaviour doesn't appear anywhere else in the provided datafiles, in either the waiting time or turnaround time values and is entirely unexpected as the waiting times for all of the other algorithms and datafiles are matching and correct. I suspect there is something incorrect in either rounding or data type conversion.
